# CS-360
Mobile Architecture and Programming


The SNHU Inventory App was developed to provide a simple way to track and manage inventory.  The goal was to create a mobile application that allows users to add, update, and remove inventory items while creating a smooth user experience.  This app can be utilized for small businesses or individuals who require an organizing inventory system.  
The Login Screen allows users to create a new account, enter username and a unique password to begin using the application.  Usernames and passwords are stored in a local database.  The home screen provides an overview of their current inventory situation, displaying which items are currently loaded into inventory.  Users can then click on an inventory item to traverse to the Items Details Screen, which will give the user information about the item they clicked on such as the name of the item, a description of the item, the category the item should be listed under and the quantity of the item.  On the bottom of the app is a quick access navigation bar that lets users quickly traverse to different app screens such as Item, Add/Remove Items, Messages, and a LogOut button.  A message will be populated in the Messages Screen when an Item has reached below a certain quantity or removed completely.  The UI for this app was designed for simplicity with clear navigation.  
The SNHU Inventory App was built using Java and Android Studio.  I followed Object Oriented Principles to maintain clear and modular code.  To make sure that the app functioned properly, testing was done after every coding segment, sometimes even in between.  Testing of the app was crucial to ensure that there were not any bugs or to find and fix them early on in the development process.  
One of the main issues I encountered when developing this app ensuring real-time updates when modifying or removing inventory items.  After updating or deleting an item, the changes would not reflect on the Inventory Items screen.  This was caused by not updating the database properly after item modifications.  As well as not refreshing the items screen to load the new details from the database onto the UI.  
The strongest projection of my skills was integrating the SQLite Database into the application.  The database allows storage and modifications of usernames, passwords, and inventory items details.  I was able to implement efficient CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations in SQLite.  I was also able to develop scalable code that is suitable for future expansion.   
